---
layout: post
title:  "Why Jekyll?"
subtitle: "And not just hide."
img: 
  src: "jekyll/girl-hiding.jpg"
  alt: "Girl hiding face"
date:   2017-08-30 00:00:00 -0600
tags: 
  - jekyll
---

Learning a new technology can be intimidating. It's so easy to just use exactly what you're used to, maybe an upgraded version of the same technology you used on a previous project, and stay in your comfort zone. 

I've used content management systems in the past, like Drupal and Wordpress, but sometimes they're just not the right tool for the job. 

This project, my portfolio, is pretty simple. A few pages and a blog about some of the things I've worked on and learned about. An easy go-to that I've used in the past would be [Wordpress](http://wordpress.org), with a custom theme. I've written plenty of themes and plugins from scratch. But for just a handful of pages, why choose something that can do so much more than you need?

Wordpress would have been a fine choice.

But there's something I like better about not using any sort of UI to put code to a page. 

### So, why use Jekyll? 

Like I said, I only need a few pages. I could have just written some basic HTML and been done with it. Why didn't I?

Every few years, I update my portfolio. And every time, I start from scratch. Why? because I've created something so customized, and the web design trends of the day are so different, that it just seems easier. 

#### Re-theming
This time, I wanted to create something that was easily **re-themeable**. _That's probably not a word..._ I want to finally create something that I'll be persistent in updating and keeping up with, so when it comes time to want to show it off, I'm ready. 

#### WYSIWYG-free
Sometimes, WYSIWYGs just aren't necessary. In this case, they're not! 

#### Stability &amp; Security
Jekyll is a static site generator. What's more stable and secure than a bunch of basic HTML files?

I was so sick of letting my portfolio site sit for months only to realize that I hadn't updated the CMS in a while and that it's security was out of date. This is much less of a nagging worry!



